---
title: "Smartwatch in Digital times: An analysis of smartwatch's trend at Syracuse University"
date: 2019-12-26T09:30:30-04:00
permalink: /dsml/2019-12-26-mar/
categories:
  - Portfolio
tags:
  - Marketing Analytics
  - AB Testing
  - Visualization
  - Unsupervised Learning
  - Dimensionality Reduction
---
This research is based on the survey conducted on 211 students of Syracuse University. Our research group created a survey based on the attributes which a customer calculates when purchasing a product. The survey was designed to collect data based on aesthetics, demographic, technological and economic opinions.
Our research group circulated the survey via e-mail with the help of Syracuse University’s administration. The survey was distributed to students having different socioeconomic background and discipline to obtain a more wide-ranging dataset. The survey was designed on Qualtrics and distributed electronically enabling us to collect data from students living on and off campus.
The data from the survey was assembled in Excel for further analysis. We studied the general structural properties for our dataset and with the help of pivot table and plots, observed some nominal data. We used Principal Component Analysis and Clustering to get trends and linear combinations. Based on the data analysis, we provide inferences and recommendations.

**Introduction**

With a few clicks and rotation of a button, we can now access our e-mails, track our activities, listen to music and even check heart rate. A smartwatch is as functional as our smartphone with the added advantage of being a fitness tracker. According to market research, 1 in 10 American will have a smartwatch in 2019 thanks to their LTE connectivity and new health features.
The following research study was conducted to analyze the factors leading to the growing popularity of smartwatches. Our research with the help from Syracuse Administration circulated the survey built on Qualtrics. Through sending out an electronic survey, we were able to collect data from 211 students from different courses and socioeconomic backgrounds. The survey was carefully designed by dividing it into sections focusing on demographics, technological features, physical features and socio-economic status of the individuals.
Based on the data collected, we divided it based on gender, ownership of the products and its utilities to name a few. The descriptive analysis helped us to visualize customer’s expectations and demands from the product. Principal Component Analysis enabled us to choose the number of factors we further used for dividing the data into clusters. PCA tabulated factors which play a crucial role in a customer’s decision. Clustering followed by PCA enabled us to understand expectations from a product better while also providing an insight into factors which could be worked upon to meet the demands.

**Sampling Technique**

The data that we examined was limited to Syracuse University’s students. Syracuse University’s total enrollment for fall 2017 was 22,484, including both full- and part-time students in undergraduate, graduate, and law programs. The current gender distribution is 47.5% Male and 52.5% Females.
*Enrollment and Demographic data obtained from the Syracuse website at ‘About SU.’
Technique: Surveys were distributed electronically via e-mails. The aim was to collect an extensive, varied data ranging from multiple age groups and course works.
Weaknesses: The survey consists of data from individuals who filled out the survey. It has no data about the individuals who could be using our product but didn’t fill the survey.
For obtaining better results, the research team would modify its approach in collecting data from Syracuse students. We would make the survey more appealing to our audience to collect more extensive data. The strategy should also consider the proportion who may not be using the product and how can we accommodate their opinions in the survey as well.

**Measurement**

The survey questionnaire consisted of a homogeneous mix of open-ended, multiple choice, dichotomous and Likert-type scale questions. The questions were designed taking into consideration demographic variables such as age, socioeconomic status, interest, product usage information, product expectation. The different section of the survey consisted of:
- The demographic section was designed to gather necessary information such as gender, age, Media interaction, smartphone, and laptop ownership. This section consisted of multiple choice or short answers to understand how customers learn about new products.
- The second determines the interest of people in and their opinions. All questions in this section are itemized rating scale. There are five scales for each question. One being the lowest rating which refers to “not interested at all” and “5” the highest rating suggesting customers are “very interested.”
- The third section is about product usage, product and brand loyalty — questions designed to calculate the frequency of wristwatch usage, ownership, the brand name and the activities where the product gets utilized. Multiple choices and are nominal and ordinal measurements.
- The fourth part presents a set of multiple choice questions to determine product expectation. These questions were built to understand better how the product is relevant and its shortcoming. It also takes into consideration a customer’s price sensitivity.
- The last section included a set of 16 hypothetical smartwatches which differed from each other in brand names, battery life, casing, and price. It is a rating scale question (1(most likes) -16(least like)) to determine which combinations are chosen by the majority.
The results were assimilated in Excel. Our team used Excel to analyze the data using pivot tables and chart. The results are found in the Data Analysis section below.

**Data Analysis**

*Aggregate Results:* This section observes the means, standard deviations and counts of the various responses received through the survey. The means provide an overview of the variable’s values while standard deviations give us an estimate of how spread is a variable. A complete list of these results for each variable is available in the excel sheet. Listing some of the variables below:

| Variables | Mean | Standard Deviation | Comments |
| --------- | ----- | ----------------- | --------- |
| Duration (sec) | 267.36 | 159.64 | NA |
| Latitude | 37.46465851 | 4.522414603 | NA |
| Longitude | -92.66832977 | 15.32735697 | NA |
| Age group | 4.02 | 1.29 | 26-35 |

*Data Visualization:* The results below analyze the data collected through the survey. The plots help determines the demographic characteristics of the students, product characteristics and their ratings.

**Research Questions:** Through our survey and descriptive analysis, we propose these research questions. These questions revolve around awareness of customer towards our product of interest, factors taken into account before buying the product, utility of the product and the value for its price. The questions are as follows:
1. Customer Loyalty towards a brand.
2. Physical features of the product that appeal the most to customers 3. Activities performed on/with the product.
4. Product sale based on Age and Gender.
5. Applications offered by the product.
6. The choice of purchasing smartwatch based on gender and age

